Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
